
# Welcome to the FlutterFlow Documentation Repository!
We're thrilled to have you here! Our documentation is a crucial resource for both new and existing users of FlutterFlow, and it grows and improves with contributions from our community. Whether you're fixing a typo, discussing a new topic, adding a troubleshooting guide, or sharing your experiences in a blog post, your contributions help everyone.

Below you'll find guidelines on how you can contribute to different parts of the documentation.

### A little note on tooling
Most of our documentation is written in markdown, which means it's super easy edit files. 
You can choose to edit markdown directly in GitHub, or you can open up the entire reposiitory in StackBlitz.

Either way, you'll need to open up a pull request, and get an approval from at least one-code owner. 

TO DO: add more details

## 1. Editing Existing Pages
To make edits to an existing page, you can use the "Edit this page" button that appears at the bottom of each page. 
That brings you straight to the source of the page in GitHub.

## 2. Adding a New Docs Page
To add a new docs page, simply create a new markdown page in a subdirectory within the docs directory. 

To ensure that page shows up on the sidebar, add its path to the docsSidebar object inside the sidebars.ts file.

## 3. Adding a Troubleshooting Guide
To add a new troubleshooting guide, simply create a new mardkown page in the docs/troubleshooting directory. 

## 4. Adding a Blog
To add a new blog, simply create a new mardkown page in the blogs directory. 

## 5. Generating the Changelog
TO DO: auto-generating changelog

### Ready to Contribute?
Your contributions are vital to keeping FlutterFlow's documentation clear, up-to-date, and helpful. We look forward to seeing your pull requests and are excited to welcome you into our community of contributors!

### Top Contributors

TO DO: *Perhaps we have some top contributors tabe that's autogenerated*? 

If you have any questions or need further guidance, don't hesitate to reach out to the documentation team. Happy documenting!